Welcome to the Stream's Lecture.
In the previous lecture, we learned how to print data on the screen using the print statement, and
as we saw, we can use it for any kind of information, numbers, text variables, and many more things.
But let's not get ahead of ourselves.
You have seen only text and numbers so far.
In Python there are many types of data and we will see them throughout this course.
But let's start with the data known as stream, which is nothing more than text strings.
That's what we will focus on in this lesson.
They are called text strings because in reality a string is a string of characters.
For example, the word hello is a string composed by the letters H, e, l, l and O.
And this is important since it is how Python is going to process our text.
That's why we use quotation marks every time we write a string to clearly inform where our string starts
and ends.
Another important feature is that strings can contain not only letters but also numbers or special characters.
But even so, everything in a string will be considered as text white spaces, special signs, punctuation,
and even mathematical operators and numbers while they're inside the quotes.
They will not be treated mathematically, and you will not be able to do operations with them since
they will be treated as text characters.
I say right now you follow Federico, head over to Pi picture and learn in a little bit more depth.
And here we are again in PI to see how strings work.
We have already seen that a string is a text string enclosed in quotes.
We can put it inside of print to print or display on the screen a certain text.
As I explained a few seconds ago, what we have here, although they are numbers and there is a plus
sign and you might think that this is an operation, this is actually a string because it is in quotes
and therefore the council does not interpret it as an operation.
And the results it gives us is not 150.
It gives us the expression 100 plus 50.
Remember that we would have to remove the quotation marks so the actually returns in numerical operation.
But let's continue with the strings.
Strings can not only be described as a sequence of characters, as we have seen so far, but also several
sequences of characters and put them together or join them in what we call a concatenation.
So here I'm going to type 50, for example, I'm going to execute this.
And here we see in the console that it says Fed.
And this is very simple, but I could add here before another expression that says hello.
We closed the quotation marks.
We put a plus between both expressions.
Both are with different quotation marks, the first with double, the second with single quotation mark.
This doesn't matter and observe what is going to happen if we execute this.
What you see is that it says, Hello, Fatty.
But it actually says it all together because if we look back up here to the print, I joined to strings,
but I haven't left any space in between them.
I could solve this in three different ways.
I could put a space here.
And this, if we correct it, is going to say hello space three.
We could also remove this space and put a space before the F in the second string.
And this is going to work the same as it still displays.
Hello fading.
Or you could generate a space by creating a third string with nothing but an empty space.
I'm getting an error here because there are two quotation marks.
Okay.
Problem solved.
And we have then a string that says hello.
It's concentrated with a string that is empty that has.
Well, actually, it's not empty.
It has a blank space and a third string that even though it has different quotes, it's going to be
taken as a string anyway.
And it says very also, if we execute this, we will have our Hello Fit, which works exactly the same
as the other two previous weights.
So some of the considerations when you use the strings, I already showed you that if you want this
show quotes inside a string, you do it by putting different quotation marks than the ones you've used
to wrap that string.
But there is also another alternative.
Let's write here under the phrase like, My name is Federico.
That's it.
Let's leave it like that.
So it's given me an error because I start with double quotes and end with single quotes.
Now that's corrected.
I'm well.
My name is Federico.
Plus the closing brackets, and I might want to put Federico between quotes.
I showed you that here I can solve it by putting single quotes and that would solve it.
But also, if I wanted to put double quotes and use the double quotes outside, I have a special character
which is the backslash.
When you put a backslash, you are telling the code that the following character is not going to be
taken as a character, but it is a special function or a textual character.
So if I put double quotes here, Python painted in a different color.
I want Frederico to also end with the double quotes.
So I put another backslash and then the quotes.
So if I run this, I want you to observe how it looks in the console.
My name is Federico in double quotes.
So the backslash tells Python, Hey, the next character.
Don't take it as text.
Please take it as a special character.
It can be to make it textual, as in this case, or for other functions like the ones I'm going to show
you now.
So we're going to delete all this and we're going to put quotation marks and we're going to say here,
this is the one line.
And this is another.
You will say that was bad writing, Freddy.
We put everything in a row without leaving a space.
So I want to show you how to write two lines in a row with the same print command.
So let's put here the backslash and then the letter and the end is a special character that says New
Line.
Then Python, when it reads this, will understand that it must insert a new line.
Let's execute it and see that here we have this is a line and this is another line, although it is
all in one print.
We could also continue writing if it's another different option, another command print below to which
I'm going to put.
This is the third line between quotation marks.
We execute it and it works in the same way.
I can put this command in a separate print.
Oh.
With a backslash and n to require the Python compiler to generate a new line.
Another character we can incorporate is the backslash with the letter T.
The T stands for Tabula but is adding a full character space before the next character.
If I run this, we will see that this is the third line is separated by an event by four character space,
which is nothing more than if I pressed the tab key.
So do we have any more options?
Yes.
We also have the possibility that when we want to write something, let's suppose I want to write.
Let's delete all this.
Let's open parentheses.
Let's write this text with single quotation marks.
And I would like to put something with an apostrophe, for example.
This isn't my number.
And what happens isn't should have an apostrophe between the end and the T, which is written with the
single quotation mark.
But here's the problem.
When I put the single quotation mark, having a single quotation mark it enclosing this text, Python
said, You're ending the first text.
I don't understand this and I don't know anything more.
And that will give you an error.
So then we also have the possibility of using, well, either putting double quotes outside and that
solves it or putting a backslash before the apostrophe.
So remember, hey, we're telling Python the next character takes it as it is.
It then understands that it is an apostrophe which it should read as such, and that is not the enclosing
quotation mark.
So we're executed and this isn't a number was spelt correctly.
One last lecture about the backlash is that sometimes you may want to write the following.
This sign, the backslash is a backslash.
What if I want a backslash to appear in my text?
Here.
I'm having an error because the backslash is an escape sign.
Then Python will execute it in a very strange way.
If we want a backslash to appear.
What we have to do is after the backslash, type another backslash.
So we're telling it the next character that to this, the second slash, take it verbatim as is.
So let's run this and see what we're going to see is this sign is an invaded slash.
Many times you may need the slash to be part of your text.
So thank you very much for joining me in this lecture about strings.
And see you in the next one to continue learning much more.